what's up guys welcome back to Pauls
hardware I have a bunch of computer
parts here in front of me which means
it's time for yet another monthly build
this time for November 2019 and if
you're considering and building a new
gaming PC this holiday season and maybe
taking advantage of some of those Black
Friday sales and you're planning to
spend around eight hundred to a thousand
dollars this is the computer you should
build the hydrotech series is Corsairs
new line of custom cooling parts built
for the world's most powerful and
stunning systems they've gone all-out
with CPU and graphics card water blocks
pump reservoir combos fittings tubing
radiators and coolant providing you with
everything you need to build a
spectacular custom cooling loop that
lowers system temperatures and improves
performance complete with vivid RGB
light click the sponsor link in the
video description to learn more so every
month I part out a couple builds at the
beginning of the month and then I build
one of them and at the beginning of this
month my parts list was an $850 PC that
feels like a $1,000 PC and I chose the
core components for this build based on
that so I'm gonna go over the parts that
I chose and why I chose them and maybe
offer some alternatives here and there
for some parts that could be swapped in
for a little bit more money and more
performance or a little bit less money
and typically less performance and just
so you guys know I'm not doing a
step-by-step tutorial in this video but
I do have a step-by-step how to build a
PC guide that you can check out by
clicking the card up there if you want
to and then you can apply all of that
knowledge to this particular build
itself I will be pointing out specific
quirks or eccentricities or things that
I come across as I put this together
that said let's go over the parts so
I've kind of rearranged things here and
that is so I can go over these in order
for those of you who maybe are less
familiar with PC building from the parts
that are most impactful on your overall
computer's performance - the least
impactful and we'll start from left and
go to the rates as we go over each of
these starting with the processor of
course which is an AMD risin 530 600 X
the reason I'm going with AMD is I
simply think that they have the best
mainstream platform on offer right now
really fast processors that go
toe-to-toe with Intel note that this is
a six core 12 thread processor it does
have SMT or simultaneous multi-threading
that's called hyper threading on the
Intel side and it's something that you
typically have to pay more money for so
if you want six cores and twelve threads
and you're buying the Intel mainstream
platform and you want it to be unlocked
for overclocking like all of these Andy
processors are
you typically have to spend upwards of
$300 whereas the 3,600 X is listed for
250 regularly on sale for 230 and I just
saw it on sale for 200 so keep an eye on
the 3600 as well it's just a little bit
lower clock but it still has six cores
and twelve threads and it is unlocked
for overclocking you get a slightly
larger cooler with the 3600 X that's
going to do a little bit better job all
in all though for $200 the 3600 X is a
really really good deal and it will last
you for quite a while the other nice
thing about investing in this platform
is these processors are socket a.m. for
so the motherboards that you're going to
use with them or socket a.m. for and
then you're probably going to go with a
400 series motherboard like a B 450 and
then they also have 500 series
motherboards like X 570 that's available
although X 570 motherboards typically
cost closer to $200 and up where as you
can get a good be 450 motherboard like
the tomahawk max here from MSI for
around 110 215 dollars getting ahead of
myself though having a nice fast CPU is
gonna be mostly helpful for doing stuff
like video editing and video transcoding
rendering stuff but typically referred
to as CPU heavy lifting tasks and if
you're just doing web browsing or even
gaming CPU is actually a little bit less
of the equation and the GPU comes into
play a little bit more so the card I'm
building with today is an AMD Radeon rx
5700 XT and this is the gaming X version
that MSI makes in the parts list I
recommended a Radeon rx 5700 which you
can sometimes find for about $300 5700
XTS typically started about $350 to $400
that said once again there are two
reasons I've included this card one MSI
provided it to me so that's nice - this
entire system is going to be given away
along with our charity livestream in a
couple weeks so the winner of that
shouldn't complain about getting a 5700
XT instead of a 5700 and finally there's
lots of options over on the Nvidia side
as well for graphics cards it shouldn't
be ignored because they're also quite
good I just feel like down in the 300
the $350 price range the 50 750 700 XT
have a little bit of an edge but if you
can find a good deal on a 2016 / and up
go for that and if you're spending more
money obviously you have options there
in the 2070 super 20/80 super in 2080 Ti
in particular I would recommend an
NVIDIA GPU if you already have a
synch variable refresh rate monitor for
example if you go AMD you're going to
need to get a free sync variable refresh
rate monitor all that said I do not
blame you if you're confused in your
choice of GPU just know that the fifty
seven hundred and fifty seven hundred xt
as long as you're getting the less
expensive versions of those are good
choices and I will be doing some Black
Friday deals videos where I will be
pulling out graphics cards that I think
are great bargains and so stay tuned for
that if you want to find some deals
actually come Black Friday now the rest
of the parts are gonna have an impact
but a less a lesser impact on the
overall system performance for instance
your storage you're going to want to get
an SSD and the faster SSD can give you a
little bit more performance in certain
areas that said once you've got an SSD
the improvement that you get by going
with a faster SSD for typical day-to-day
compute tasks is pretty minimal I'm
recommending a 500 gig class SATA SSD
today that means the OSI zvx 500 which
is made by Toshiba which I don't think
is actually still produced but it's a
it's a good solid SSD and it's a 512 gig
drive you can find 500 gig SATA SSDs for
around $45 right now which is a good
deal keep an eye on the one terabyte
ones as well which you can sometimes
find for around 80 to 100 and that said
also reality check if you're looking at
SATA SSDs the 2.5 inch ones like this
that have a SATA plug you also have the
option to go with an nvme SSD like this
one they have an MDOT 2 interface a
little one like that they just plug
directly into your motherboard which is
convenient and whereas these have a
range of speeds from like a thousand
megabytes per second reading writes all
the way up to three thousand megabytes
per second reading writes or above
drives like this Intel 660 P series SSD
will give you significantly faster
performance compared to a SATA Drive and
you can often find them for only 5 to 10
bucks more so that is something you
should reality check in case you want to
go with a little bit faster storage
again kind of got out of order though
because storage will affect your boot
times and your load times for games but
your memory is actually going to have
more of an overall impact on your
overall system performance especially if
you're going to get slightly faster
memory to pair up with a rise in CPU
like the 3600 x4 the 3000 series of
Rison cpus AMD is recommending 3600
speed memory so today I have this
g.skill ripjaws 5 kit which I purchased
from Newegg
ddr4 3,600 rated castle in c16 and the
capacity is 16 gigs that capacity is
actually one of the base suspects you
should be looking at 16 gigabytes 8 gigs
per stick you want a dual-channel kit
like this so you can take advantage of
dual channel memory mode and with most
motherboards that are full sized ATX
like this you'll have 4 memory slots so
that means you'll only be populating two
of them and that means you can upgrade
and add more memory in the future if you
decide that you need it now one of the
confusing things about choosing memory
for the Rison platform is that Rison
processors like faster memory it affects
the overall performance of the chip but
getting really fast memory that's
actually listed as compatible with Rison
can often be more expensive like this
kit here was about $75 comparable kits
that are like from gee skills flair X
line that are made specifically for
Rison can be 20 to 30 to 40 dollars more
expensive and all we're talking about
here is that the actual memory chips the
little chips that are on each memory
module itself might be from a different
source the ones that are pretty much
universally compatible or known as
samsung B dies and to get to that
guaranteed you typically have to spend
more money so I went with this kits
because it's less expensive I'm gonna
plug it in and test it and see if we can
actually run it at the rated speeds
based on the reviews I saw this kit
which were there just a few of because
it is a relatively new kit that may or
may not actually happen but the other
thing to consider I guess if you're
looking at memory is that a lot of
memory can have flashy like RGB LEDs and
stuff on it like that it doesn't affect
performance
it doesn't make faster so if it's less
expensive go with a simpler kit like one
of these it's just got a nice simple
black heat spreader design on it and
hopefully by the end of this video you
will know for sure whether or not this
kits is plug-and-play compatible at the
rated 3600 speed with a 3600 X around
doing things out here's our motherboard
the MSI B 450 tomahawk max if you go
with the B 450 motherboard and 7 X 570
motherboard the upside is that they're a
lot less expensive this board sells for
about 115 dollars right now whereas the
good entry-level X 570 motherboards and
if you are looking at that I'd recommend
the Asus tough X 570 by the way but
those usually start at 180 to 200
dollars each this gets you all of the
same performance of that this gets you
some decent overclocking performance you
upgrade this from your six core here to
the 12 core 3900 X or even the 16 core
39 50 X and it works just fine at full
speed in this motherboard the fact that
this is a max version means that it is
updated so it will work plug and play
with your risin 3000 series processors
whereas the older non max version of the
B 450 tomahawk did need a BIOS update in
order to recognize the rise in 3000
series CPUs it is lacking Wi-Fi so keep
that in mind you might want to add on a
USB Wi-Fi adapter if you need Wi-Fi it
does have a thern net so you can plug in
directly and then with be 450 you're not
going to have access to PCI Express Gen
4 you'll be limited to Gen 3 speeds
which for the majority of gamers is
totally totally fine you only really
need PCI Express Gen 4 if you're going
for a really really fast nvme SSD not
this one but really really fast nvme
SSDs and those can be really really
expensive and they're not going to
improve your gaming performance so
that's why you can pretty much leave
that out and you're fine with B 450 the
last things we have here are a power
supply and a case and these are going to
maybe minimally impact your performance
for a case you want to make sure you
have airflow and that's why I chose the
mesh fic which is currently selling for
$90 I have a couple other
recommendations for cases that are about
$70 the NZXT dh5 10 as well as the
fantex P 350 X are really good choices
I couldn't source those quickly enough
for today's video so I went with the
mesh if I see it comes with an intake
and exhaust fan which is nice really
well rated case and one that I built in
before and I think anyone would be happy
with that said you know there are a
couple options that might be 15 or 20
bucks cheaper but I have seen the mesh
of 5c go on sale as well so keep an eye
out for it this Black Friday finally we
need a power supply for that I'm using
the cooler master MWe gold 650 this has
several really nice features for one
it's 80 plus gold rated which means it's
just going to be efficient it's gonna
draw less power from the wall to run
your system it has a five-year warranty
which is nice but more important than
that it's fully modular so you only plug
in the cables that you need and then
also very importantly the cables that
are included are all black there's no
hideous colors that are just going to
stand out and make your build not look
as pretty we want something that blends
in if you're trying to pick a power
supply and this one is a little bit
expensive for you because power supply
prices have gone
a lot as a result of the tariffs in the
US recently here's how I would go about
picking one first off you want to make
sure it's 80 plus rated I'd recommend a
plus bronze if you can't claw your way
up to 80 plus gold second it's good to
buy from a reputable power supply
manufacturer Coolermaster I would say is
definitely one of those but there's also
other options like see sonic Corsair
EVGA you can double check reviews that
will give you a good idea of which
companies make good power supplies and
then lastly if you can go for modular go
for modular there's also partially
modular where the 24 pin is permanently
connected but the other ones are modular
modular cables is really nice it just
means you're going to have less cable
cutter clutter in your system you only
plug in the modular cables that you need
that said getting all those features can
often cost ninety or a hundred dollars
so I don't blame anyone for getting a
$50 80 plus bronze rated 550 watt power
supply with no modular cables as long as
the cables are still black that's still
just fine
550 Watts will get you by for the vast
majority of gaming PC builds right now
650 watts gives you a little bit more
flexibility for upgrading a graphics
card in the future and then it also
means that the power supply is going to
up be operating at a more optimal point
in its efficiency curve but again if
you're at all concerns and feel free to
double check my monthly builds playlists
for some parts lists descriptions or
double check my channel because I will
have some videos coming out around Black
Friday that have suggestions
recommendations as well as my picks for
some really good deals this Black Friday
season let's talk about some of the
reasons why I chose this case and they
could be reasons that apply to other
cases as well case can often be your
biggest impact when it comes to your
aesthetic choice for what your system is
going to look like so most cases are you
know a standard tower style design it's
basically a big box but there are
certain things that can be done
aesthetically to make it stand out a
little bit and fractal to make this mesh
front panel stand out has given it sort
of this textured fractally design which
which is cool more functionally though
that X is a big old dust filter and
there's also a magnetic dust filter up
here on top dust filters can actually
reduce the airflow in a case but it does
prevent dust from building up so it's a
bit of a trade-off there I prefer to
have dust filters rather than not other
than that you might want to take a look
at your IO
on the front inputs and outputs usually
you'll have at least a couple USB 3.0
ports that's pretty standard right now
power and reset of course in a mic and
headphone jack if you have a USB 3.1
type C port up here as well that's also
convenient but you will need to pass
that back and plug it into your
motherboard this motherboard doesn't
have that header on it that's one of the
reasons it's a more entry-level board so
we're not going to be missing out on
anything there we also have a tempered
glass side panel and tempered glass is
really nice because it's a lot more
durable it's not going to get scratched
up like Plexiglas and it gives you a
nice view inside your case I have left
the plastic protective peel on this for
now because it's best to do that while
you're building and then peel it off
once the system is put together I also
like how this tempered glass mounts it's
got little plugs that it sort of sits on
and they can screw the screws in or
remove them it's not the absolute best
mounting method for a tempered glass
side panel but it's definitely easier
than some of the other ones I've seen
where they just rest on the screws until
you remove them out and that can be a
little precarious internally we have a
nice painted interior everything is all
black so everything's gonna match pretty
nicely and then if we add some RGB
lighting or something like that it'll
stand out and that will be how we color
and to make our case more unique your
case will often come with fans
pre-installed and some inexpensive cases
come with really not good fans installed
but these that fractal ships with it by
default are actually pretty nice so we
can go ahead and stick with these a
basement area that's down at the bottom
of the case where your power supply will
go that sort of tucks it away and hides
it is also nice to have especially if
your power supply isn't as aesthetically
pleasing to look at fractal also added
some ventilation here so we're gonna
have our fan on the bottom for our power
supply but this does give you the option
to point it up if you decided you want
to do that there's also a dust filter
across the entire bottom of the case so
this is going to protect dust intake for
your power supply which sits back here
you also have the option maybe to add
another fan here but I haven't really
done that personally but the nice thing
is you remove it from the front so you
don't need to move your case around too
much you just pull it there it slides
all the way out from the front so you
can pull it out and clean it and put it
back in without having to redo your
setup or get back behind the case
somehow finally for your case choice you
should try to take a look at your cable
management area usually that's back
behind the motherboard tray fractal has
puts a triple
here for 2.5 inch drives that's nice for
drive expansion there's also some 3.5
inch mounts down in the bottom so you
can and mechanical drives if you still
have some of those hanging around
there's this real nice channel down the
side here that has velcro strips that
are pre attached so all the cables are
sort of pre routed through there but as
you're going to be adding more from the
power supply you can route them through
there you can cinch those cables down
and get your cable management nice and
tidy that's also got all these little
tie-down points or for just routing
through zip ties or twist ties or velcro
and strapping down your cables to keep
them clean and tidy and out of the way
as best you can
another nice bonus from this case is
that everywhere there are pass throughs
like here and here and here you have
these grommet holes so you can pass the
cables through and that's that's just
real nice to have as well and fractal
does a good job with these they tend to
stay on and not pop off too easily as
you're shoving cables through them so
that's nice too and all these features
have been mentioning that are nice about
this case are by no means unique to
fractal there are lots of cases that are
well designed - like this one this is
just a good example that I think has
done a lot of things right so again have
fun with your case decision as long as
you're getting an ATX case you should
have compatibility with your motherboard
and the rest of the hardware that goes
in it the only other thing I would say
to deeply consider when you're choosing
your case is going to be how big your
your graphics card is the length and
sometimes even the width because the
graphics card is going to go right there
and you might have conflicts down in
this area or you might even have width
conflicts going out this way fortunately
again with this case there is plenty of
room both horizontally as well as
horizontally they're both kind of
horizontal I guess alright I tried to do
this in a recent video and it failed so
I'm going to do it again here this is
the Wraiths spire which is the air
cooler that comes with a AMD rise in
2000 or 3000 series processor if you get
a high enough end one there's also a
rate stealth that I'm not showing you
right now these are both rate spires
with the 3000 series I've raised spires
they removed this copper plug from the
middle so it's all aluminum now and the
fan spins at a higher rpm and it's
noticeably louder so I am going to be
swapping this since the system will
probably be shipped at some points I'm
not going to put a big air cooler on
there anything this is actually really
good for shipping but I'm going to swap
it with the upgraded version from last
generation that has copper
should be enough vertical clearance this
time one thing that would be nice in
this case is if the standoffs came
pre-installed they do not they're in a
little baggie that's okay but it doesn't
mean we'll need to install them while
keeping track of which ones line up with
the motherboard itself again this is
covered in my tutorial where I go
step-by-step how to build a PC but
basically most motherboards have three
across the top three more across the
middle and three more across the bottom
and you want to make sure that you mount
a standoff wherever there is a mounting
point on the motherboard at this point
if you did have an nvme SSD you would
want to install it right here but other
than that our motherboard is pretty much
all set to go and we're ready to install
it in the case got the standoffs mounted
where they should be all along here the
thing we want to make sure we handle
before we do that as one of the two
things that I got out of the motherboard
accessories box and that is our i/o
shield that needs to go on the back
facing out of course the only other
thing that I got from the motherboard
box was a SATA cable so I could connect
up our SATA SSD and if you are new to PC
building now might be a good time to
reference your motherboards manual
because you are going to want to connect
up front panel connectors on this
particular motherboard they are this
little block right here it's labeled jf
p1 and they have a little grid diagram
right up there that tells you which is
the power LED power button reset button
so that you can wire those up but once
we get to that point that's going to be
really annoying and knowing where those
are beforehand can be helpful on some
other boards in the case it should rest
on this little Center post right there
and then you should maybe double check
reality check that you have standoffs
mounted beneath all of these standoffs
mounting points along here because if
you put one in the wrong spot
that can actually be dangerous so this
is something that you definitely want to
double check
that is our last screw we have again one
two three four post six seven eight and
nine and at this point we're actually
pretty far along with the build process
the CP was installed with the cooler on
top of it the memory is installed on the
motherboard motherboard is installed in
the case all we have left is to install
the power supply which is going to go
down here and we got to route up the
cables for the power supply to provide
power to everything throughout the front
panel connectors to the motherboard
where they need to be and install the
graphics card and SSD and then we'll be
done of course we're also going to want
to connect up our case fans and we have
one in the front one in the back
these have a standard header for case
fans which is usually either three or
four pins these are three pin that's
just fine
we have four pin headers on the
motherboard like this one right here and
you can plug a 3 pin plug into the four
pin header like I just did there's just
one extra pin out on the side also
here's a good time to talk about cable
management this is plugged in it's
functional the fans gonna spin but I
just took the cable that was already
sitting there and I left it as is let me
see if I can do this better okay how
about now can you tell what I did I took
the cable right at it straight from the
plug and I kind of tucked it back in
here and I was going to use the twist
tie to tie it up right in there but
basically I just tucked it in right up
here it's not even tied to anything see
cable just hanging out loose back in
there
tucked up under that's not going
anywhere and the main point here is just
that as you are building and putting
stuff together if you know there's a
cable hanging loose
don't let it hang loose tuck it away if
you know where it's plugged in and you
know you have room I did the same thing
over here with our CPU fan so we have is
a little bit of cable sticking out to
over where it's plugged in to the head
around the motherboard and incidentally
that's the header that's specifically
labeled CPU fan and that is something
that you want to make sure you plug the
CPU fan into the CPU fan one because
otherwise it will think you that don't
have a CPU fan that's spinning and it
won't let your system boot up I'm gonna
do front panel connectors for the case
next I'm not going to show too much
detail here but basically there are four
little ones that are individuals these
will plug into that little block of
front panel connectors that I already
showed you on the motherboard got this
one for USB
we know that plugs into the USB 3.0 port
on the motherboard it's there's only one
that's the size then we have an HD audio
one this one can sometimes be confused
for a USB plug USB 2 plugs look really
similar to this but note that it is
keyed there's a blank one there that's
not the same as on USB so that makes it
harder to accidentally plug into the
wrong port so it's time to get our power
supply ready now so I'm gonna plug in
all the modular cables that I need well
let's hear outside the case and the
power supply mounts from the back
there's a little bracket that you're
moved to insert it from that side so
I've got the main 24 pin for the
motherboard connected up I'm also going
to need a supplemental power for the
motherboard this is for the CPU
typically this is gonna be a 4 pin or an
8 pin so I want the 8 pin for that for
the graphics card we're gonna need
supplemental power since we've got a
pretty beefy graphics card here there
are dual eight pin PCI Express graphics
connectors so these are blocks of eight
which is really similar to the CPU just
bear in mind that the CPU is four and
four whereas these are six plus two and
the key differently so you really have
to wedge them to get these plugged in
wrong but please don't plug these in
wrong unfortunately just one cables all
that's needed because there's a daisy
chain on the end that has a couple of
the eight pin connectors that are
required for the graphics card and then
lastly since we do have a SATA SSD we
will need a SATA power plug for that and
these usually come in sets where you get
three or four plugs on the end of one
cable
[Music]
so there is guys the system is all put
together and I know I've been doing kind
of a half tutorial with this video so if
there's any details that I missed or
things that you feel like a glossed over
definitely check out my how to build
tutorial because that is more step by
step and will take you through every
little thing that you should need to
know one thing I definitely like about
this build is the lack of RGB that's not
to say there is no RGB the graphics card
is a little bit integrated and the
motherboard has a header so you could
connect up RGB LED strips if you wanted
to but wiring up LEDs is a whole extra
layer of confusion on top of building
the actual core components of the
computer itself so for those of you guys
who are just starting out it's something
that I would say consider leaving out of
your initial build you can add it in the
future and I will just keep things
simpler allow you to get the system put
together allow you to actually get an
operating system load in and maybe start
gaming before you move on to maybe some
extra aesthetic touches that said I
think I am ready for our initial first
boot hopefully I did everything right
that's encouraging when the fans spin up
and everything and a lot of times in my
builds video I turn the system on and
I'm like cool it's working I'll leave it
right there
there is extra steps though of course
the setup process Windows installation I
also have a tutorial walkthrough video
on that that you guys should also check
out if you're getting your system setup
for the first time I've done a few of
those actually and I tried to be as
thorough as possible and take you from
this point to actually playing video
games but I think before I end this
video I wanted to specifically check one
thing and that is the memory I mentioned
before that these Rison systems tends to
work better with a little bit faster
memory 3600 speed ddr4 is what you
should go for this kit is relatively
inexpensive but I was unsure if the XMP
values which are sort of the memory
presets for the speeds that you can just
say here use these settings and go for
it
are actually going to work so let me see
if I can get that fully functional
alright so the graphics cards working -
we have a picture on our screen here our
CPUs immediately recognized a 3600 X up
there
like I said there's a bunch of stuff for
a set up of a new system that I
recommend you do check out my video on
that I'll put a link down in the video
description for
right now I'm gonna just try to do
something really simply and MSI puts a
shortcut to it right here which is just
a XMP or enable your XMP values
switching that on and then we will save
and reset all right so good news and
long story short it is working our
memory is at 1600 that's 1800 times to
remember its DDR double data rate memory
and our timings are there with XMP
values as well so cool
it is functional although I haven't done
further testing with it and I should
also point out this was the Windows
installation that was already on that
SSD which is a very old one from like
March of this year or maybe even last
year so I was just kidding it sort of
barely up and running so I could see
that the timings have taken effect and I
must say that I am happy that it seems
to be working and guys that is pretty
much gonna wrap it up for this video I
am very happy that this system is all
put together it's super quiet - I don't
know if you have noticed I haven't
probably made you listen very much but
see that it's always nice when you put a
system together do barely any tuning
with it and it's just quiet right out of
the gates but guys once again I'm gonna
post links to all the hardware that I
use today down in this video's
description and a reminder once again
that this is going to be a giveaway
system that is up for grabs we're gonna
kick off the giveaway on December 7th
along with me and Kyle's charity
livestream we're doing a 12-hour charity
stream we're gonna be streaming from
here in the garage for 12 hours we're
going to be streaming to twitch TV /
awesome hardware as well as my twitch
channel pulse hardware as well as Kyle's
channel which I forget it's like bit wit
kayo something like that so if you guys
can make that we'd really like you to
stop by and say hello and maybe do a
donation if you have some spare money or
if not just enter to win the system
we're gonna have a couple other giveaway
systems going on at the same time and if
any of you guys are building a system
that's this system or that's derived
from parts similar to this system leave
me a comment in the comment section down
below or send me a tweet over on Twitter
and let me know send me a picture tell
me how it went
lastly if you guys want to pick up some
merch check out my store at Al's
Hardware net I've got shirts just like
this one as well as a whole slew of
other stuff including infant onesies
thanks again for watching guys and we'll
see you next time
[Music]
you